New File - print-text-doc (#1360)
dotnet/docs-desktop: dotnet-desktop-guide/net/winforms/printing/how-to-print-text-document.md

---
title: "How to: Print a Multi-Page Text File"

> ms.date: "04/28/2022"

Author: ok

dev_langs: 
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "printing [Windows Forms], printing multiple pages"
  - "text [Windows Forms], printing Windows Forms"
  - "Windows Forms, printing text"
  - "printing [Windows Forms], text"
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

> # How to: Print a Multi-Page Text File in Windows Forms .NET

Author: ok

> It's common for Windows-based applications to print text. The <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics> class provides methods for drawing objects (graphics or text) to a device, such as a screen or printer. The following section describes in detail the process to print text file. This method doesn't support print of word and pdf files.

Reviewer: I think this is clearer about what isn't supported.

```suggestion
It's common for Windows-based applications to print text. The <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics> class provides methods for drawing objects (graphics or text) to a device, such as a screen or printer. The following section describes in detail the process to print text file. This method doesn't support printing non-plain text files, such as an Office Word document or a _PDF_ file.
```

It's common for Windows-based applications to print text. The <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics> class provides methods for drawing objects (graphics or text) to a device, such as a screen or printer. The following section describes in detail the process to print text file. This method doesn't support printing non-plain text files, such as an Office Word document or a _PDF_ file.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextRenderer.DrawText%2A> methods of <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextRenderer> are not supported for printing. You should always use the <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics.DrawString%2A> methods of <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics>, as shown in the following code example, to draw text for printing purposes.

## To print text

01. Add a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component.

01. Add a string variable to the class.

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/csharp/Form1.cs" id="add_string_to_your_form":::

    :::code language="vb" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/vb/Form1.vb" id="add_string_to_your_form":::

> 01. To print a document, set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.DocumentName%2A> property to the document you wish to print. Then open and read the document content to the string you added previously. Code to open and read document can be added to the button click event handler. Call the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.Print%2A> method to raise the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event. As shown in the highlighted code below, the method `.Print()` will start printing and method raise the `PrintPage` event.
> 
>     :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/csharp/Form1.cs" id="set_DocumentName_and_string" highlight= "10-12":::
> 
>     :::code language="vb" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/vb/Form1.vb" id="set_DocumentName_and_string" highlight= "17-19":::

Reviewer: I rewrote this paragraph to be clearer and then fixed the highlighting range to the updated code suggestions
```suggestion
01. Back in the `Click` event handler code, set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.DocumentName%2A> property to the name of the document. This information is sent to the printer. Next, read the document text content and store it in the `stringToPrint` string. Finally, call the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.Print%2A> method to raise the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event. The `Print` method is highlighted below.

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/csharp/Form1.cs" id="set_DocumentName_and_string" highlight= "12":::

    :::code language="vb" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/vb/Form1.vb" id="set_DocumentName_and_string" highlight= "12":::
```

> 01. Select the `PrintDocument` component in the Visual Designer. On the **Properties** pane, select the **Event** filter and then double-click the `PrintPage` event to generate an event handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
01. Go back to the Visual Designer of the form and select the `PrintDocument` component. On the **Properties** pane, select the **Event** filter and then double-click the `PrintPage` event to generate an event handler.
```

> 01. In the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler, use the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.Graphics%2A> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs> class and the document contents to calculate line length and lines per page. After each page is drawn, check if it's the last page, and set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.HasMorePages%2A> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs> accordingly. The <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event is raised until <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.HasMorePages%2A> is `false`. Also, make sure the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event is associated with its event-handling method.

Reviewer: Scan the rest of this article and remove the duplicate XREFs. When the old article has many xrefs, it becomes distracting for people to read because it's a constant visual distraction of "i'm a link you could click me!" in the paragraphs. For example, PrintPage is listed three times, HasMorePages is twice, PrintPageEventArgs is twice, and Graphics is once.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/67293991/165794925-dcd72739-12a4-4b70-9f7a-63bbbc914fe5.png)

Instead, keep the first references to the type and convert the others to code blocks

```suggestion
01. In the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler, use the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.Graphics%2A> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs> class and the document contents to calculate line length and lines per page. After each page is drawn, check if it's the last page, and set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.HasMorePages%2A> property of the `PrintPageEventArgs` accordingly. The `PrintPage` event is raised until `HasMorePages` is `false`. Also, make sure the `PrintPage` event is associated with its event-handling method.
```

additionally, not in my suggestion block above, the end of the paragraph mentions associating the `PrintPage` event, but that really should be step 2 above, telling them how to do it in Visual Studio:

01. Select the `PrintDocument` component in the Visual Designer. On the **Properties** pane, select the **Event** filter and and then double-click the `PrintPage` event to generate an event handler.

Something like that.

> 01. In the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler, use the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.Graphics%2A> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs> class and the document contents to calculate line length and lines per page. After each page is drawn, check if it's the last page, and set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.HasMorePages%2A> property of the `PrintPageEventArgs` accordingly. The `PrintPage` event is raised until `HasMorePages` is `false`. Also, make sure the `PrintPage` event is associated with its event-handling method.

Reviewer: The "make sure the event is associated" doesn't need to be there anymore because the previous step added it.
```suggestion
01. In the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler, use the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.Graphics%2A> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs> class and the document contents to calculate line length and lines per page. After each page is drawn, check if it's the last page, and set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs.HasMorePages%2A> property of the `PrintPageEventArgs` accordingly. The `PrintPage` event is raised until `HasMorePages` is `false`.
```

---
title: "How to print multi-page text file"
description: Learn how to print multiple page text file (Windows Forms .NET).
ms.date: "04/29/2022"
dev_langs: 
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
helpviewer_keywords: 

>   - "printing [Windows Forms .NET], printing multiple pages"
>   - "text [Windows Forms .NET], printing Windows Forms"
>   - "Windows Forms .NET, printing text"
>   - "printing [Windows Forms .NET], text"

Reviewer: Lets keep these the same. I don't know how they affect the help viewer F1 key in visual studio.
```suggestion
  - "printing [Windows Forms], printing multiple pages"
  - "text [Windows Forms], printing Windows Forms"
  - "Windows Forms, printing text"
  - "printing [Windows Forms], text"
```

Author: ok.

ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

# How to print a multi-page text file (Windows Forms .NET)

It's common for Windows-based applications to print text. The <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics> class provides methods for drawing objects (graphics or text) to a device, such as a screen or printer. The following section describes in detail the process to print text file. This method doesn't support printing non-plain text files, such as an Office Word document or a _PDF_ file.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextRenderer.DrawText%2A> methods of <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextRenderer> are not supported for printing. You should always use the <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics.DrawString%2A> methods of <xref:System.Drawing.Graphics>, as shown in the following code example, to draw text for printing purposes.

## To print text

01. Add a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component and a string to your form.

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/csharp/Form1.cs" id="add_string_to_your_form":::

>     :::code language="vb" source="snippets/how-to-print-text-document/vb/Form1.vb" id="add_string_to_your_form":::

Author: ok
